Moving along the timeline, let's talk about adaptive or agile requirements.
The term adaptive is a common descriptor of the agile process and Agile methods.
In the last section,
several innovative ideas have come forward, incremental delivery of work items,
iterative outcomes,
prototyping such as with RAD technologies allowing analysts and
developers to show samples of what they're thinking and
designing and get immediate feedback, also lighter weight
requirements throughout the process.
Still, there are written requirements, but not to the inth degree.
All this sound familiar? This period led way for adaptive requirements
development to take hold. Here is a great quote.
Wouldn't it be great if we could figure out a way to deliver software so fast
that our customers don't have time to change their minds by Tom Poppendieck.
With waterfall development and even spiral and RAD,
there is so much time between the initial requirements and
deployment that the customer has changed their minds a
million times, businesses changed,
the world is just unpredictable, and we are knee
deep in requirements management,
which really isn't adding value to the business at all. With
adaptive or agile processes, we are now drastically shrinking
the time between requirements gathering and deployment. Users
can still change their mind,
but we have a much shorter timeframe to make those
course corrections that we need to make.
The Agile Manifesto is a philosophy by which Agile projects
should follow to produce requirements and systems.
Think of this philosophy as principles by which an analysis
or development method should be measured.
Okay, things of value in requirements and system development.
Let's go through a list of those, process and tools, contract negotiations,
comprehensive documentation, following a plan. In general,
these are good things to follow no matter how we develop requirements and
build systems, but to what degree and relative to what?
Well,
let's see. Here are the things we value more requirements in system development
than what I just stated, individual and interactions over processes and tools,
customer collaboration over contract negotiations,
working software over comprehensive documentation,
responding to change over following a plan.
Now, when some analysts and developers first heard about this,
they incorrectly believe that there was now no need
for any of the items on the right.
This is totally incorrect.
This just means we need to focus on the items on the left more than on the
right. Here is a subset of the core Agile principles,
and you will see how fundamentally different they
are from traditional development.
The highest priority is to satisfy the customer.
We welcome changing requirements.
Yep,
that's hard to believe, but we welcome changing
requirements, even late in the process.
Agile approaches are designed with change in mind and supports change.
This is huge.
Working software is a measure of success,
not milestones and schedule, of course, tell that to the project
managers. Deliver working software frequently,
which is accomplished by early and continuous delivery of
immediately usable requirements and software.
This provides a more flexible approach to
requirements management. Business people,
analysts, and developers work together daily, think
standups. Now there about seven more principles.
These are the five main ones that I like the most.
Please check out the others if you have time. Never forget,
requirements are guaranteed to be uncertain and unpredictable.
That is why you must constantly adapt and replan your work and activities, that's basically agile and that's basically lean.